Modelmode.io (now EQZEN) and other notes
Michael Sjoeberg
February 05, 2019

Been very busy lately, working seemingly non-stop on Modelmode.io (now EQZEN). Yes, indeed. I finally found an available .com domain, and it is not some random 12+ letter word!

### EQZEN

EQZEN is shaping up quickly. Recently finalised the updated portfolio and stock page, focusing on tracking, fundamental price data, and ease-of-use. I did have to make some decisions along the way.

Chart vs no-chart. Charting was previously requested, but I have had a hard time motivating the need for it. I understand charting is informative, but it is nothing more than stock price history visualised, which has nothing to do with fundamental value (see first link). I did briefly consider adding a widget, or similar, to at least offer something. However, uncluttered is king.

Inconsistent financial data vs no financial data. Financial data is available via various APIs, but none are directly consistent with SEC data. Basically, APIs tend to be standardised, where financial data is not (or at least less). Hence the problem with knowing what is what, and how to translate the data between various companies. I also believe that trust is an issue (especially in finance), so minimising the number of jumps between you and the data is important. SEC is the authority, whereas everything between, such as scrapers, APIs, even browsers are added risks.

Anyway, another requested feature is stock simulation; basically adding a position in a stock as if you actually invested. It will behave just as any other investment for performance metrics and is easy to toggle on or off. Again, ease-of-use and uncluttered is in focus. I have also explored adding non-US equities, but most available APIs seem to be premium and somewhat expensive, so might be a future paid feature.

**Technical notes**: I developed an API wrapper on AWS Lambda (see second link). It is now very easy to add additional data sources, or data points, to the application. I shifted from my previous JS-less approach, and instead moving towards more JS, in particular asynchronous functionality, keeping price data up to date without reloading or otherwise. MongoDB will primarily be used to store position data, whereas price data will be requested continuously using AJAX and the API wrapper.